Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab.
This is a free, complete course for the CCNA.
If you like these videos, please subscribe
to follow along with the series.
Also, please like and leave a comment, and
share the video to help spread this free series
of videos.
Thanks for your help.
In this video we will continue our studies
of OSPF.
In part 1 I introduced the basic functions
In this video I will cover more important
OSPF topics which you need to know for the
CCNA.
To review, OSPF is item 3.4 on the official
exam topics list.
You already know the basics of configuring
single area OSPFv2, and you know about the
OSPF router ID.
Let’s see what we’ll cover in this video.
We’ll cover three main topics.
First up OSPF’s metric, which as you know
is called cost.
It’s not so difficult to understand, so
you should know it well for the exam.
The next topic will be how routers become
OSPF neighbors.
I’ve mentioned OSPF neighbors previously,
but haven’t actually shown you the actual
process.
We’ll go in depth in this video.
Finally I’ll introduce some more OSPF configurations.
Make sure to stick around until the end of
today’s video for a bonus question from
Boson ExSim.
ExSim is a set of practice exams for the CCNA
which I used to prepare for my CCNA and CCNP
exams.
I highly recommend them, so make sure to check
out that bonus question and follow the link
in the video description to get Boson ExSim
for yourself.
Let’s talk about OSPF’s metric.
As you already know, OSPF’s metric is called
‘cost’.
It is automatically calculated based on the
bandwidth, which is basically the speed, of
the interface.
You can also manually configure the cost of
each interface, but I’ll show you that later.
The interface’s cost is calculated by dividing
a value called the ‘reference bandwidth’
by the interface’s bandwidth.
The default OSPF reference bandwidth is 100
megabits per second.
So, for example a regular Ethernet interface
with a speed of 10 megabits per second has
an OSPF cost of 10, because 100 divided by
10 equals 10.
A FastEthernet interface, with a speed of
100 megabits per second, has an OSPF cost
of 1, because 100 divided by 100 is 1.
Now, what about a gigabit Ethernet interface,
with a speed of 1000 megabits per second?
It has a cost of 1, even though 100 divided
by 1000 equals 0.1.
And what about a 10-gig Ethernet interface,
with a speed of 10000 megabits per second?
It also has a cost of 1, even though 100 divided
by 10000 equals 0.01.
Why is that?
Well, in OSPF all values less than 1 will
be converted to 1.
Therefore FastEthernet, Gigabit Ethernet,
10Gig Ethernet, etc. are equal and all have
a cost of 1 by default.
Let me show you in the CLI.
So, here is the same network topology as before.
Let’s check out the cost of R3’s F2/0
interface.
I used the SHOW IP OSPF INTERFACE F2/0 command.
Can you find the cost?
It’s actually displayed in two places.
Here and here.
As I said, the default cost of a FastEthernet
interface is 1, because it has a speed of
100 megabits per second and the reference
bandwidth is 100 megabits per second by default.
Now let’s check out the default OSPF cost
on R3’s G0/0 interface.
I entered SHOW IP OSPF INTERFACE G0/0, and
as you can see the cost here is 1 as well.
Clearly the default situation is not ideal.
Fortunately, you can change this.
You can, and should, change the reference
bandwidth with this command, from OSPF configuration
mode.
AUTO-COST REFERENCE-BANDWIDTH, followed by
the reference bandwidth in megabits per second.
Let’s take a look at that command.
As I showed in the previous slide, the reference
bandwidth is configured in megabits per second.
I configured 100,000, so what will the cost
of FastEthernet and Gigabit Ethernet interfaces
be?
100,000 divided by 100 is 1000, so that’s
the cost of a FastEthernet interface.
How about Gigabit Ethernet?
100,000 divided by 1000 is 100, so that’s
the cost of a Gigabit Ethernet interface.
Why configure such a large number for the
reference bandwidth?
Well, you should configure a reference bandwidth
greater than the fastest links in your network
to allow for future upgrades.
The 100 (*100,000) megabits per second I configured
as the reference bandwidth is equal to a 100
gigabit per second interface, which is 100
times faster than the fastest interfaces in
this network, regular gigabit ethernet.
Finally, notice this message that is displayed
when you configure the reference bandwidth.
‘Please ensure reference bandwidth is consistent
across all routers.’
So, to provide a consistent cost for each
interface bandwidth across the network, you
should configure the same reference bandwidth
on all OSPF routers in the network.
Okay, I set the same OSPF reference bandwidth
of 100 gigabits per second on all of the routers.
The OSPF cost to a destination is the total
cost of the ‘outgoing’ or ‘exit’ interfaces.
This is just like spanning tree cost.
For example, R1’s cost to reach 192.168.4.0/24
is what?
To reach 192.168.4.0, a packet would exit
R1’s G0/0, R2’s G1/0, and R4’s G1/0.
So that’s 100 plus 100 plus 100, for a total
cost of 300.
We’ll check R1’s routing table soon, but
one more thing.
Loopback interfaces have a cost of 1.
So, what is R1’s cost to reach 2.2.2.2,
which is R2’s loopback0 interface?
To reach 2.2.2.2, the packet must exit R1’s
G0/0 and R2’s loopback0.
Now, it doesn’t actually exit any physical
interface to reach the virtual loopback interface,
but the cost of 1 is added to the metric.
So, R1’s cost to reach 2.2.2.2 is 101.
Here is R1’s routing table before changing
the reference bandwidth on all of the routers,
so they all have the default reference bandwidth
of 100 megabits per second.
Notice that it has two routes to 192.168.4.0,
one via R2 and one via R3.
Even though the connection between R3 and
R4 is a slower FastEthernet connection, it
has the same cost of 1 as the gigabit Ethernet
interfaces.
And here is R1’s routing table after changing
the reference bandwidth of each router to
100,000 megabits per second.
Now R1 only inserts one route to 192.168.4.0
in the routing table, and the cost is 300
as we calculated before.
Notice the cost to 2.2.2.2 is 101, like we
also calculated before.
Now let me introduce how to manually configure
the OSPF cost of an interface.
The command is IP OSPF COST, followed by the
cost you want to configure.
You configure this directly on the interface,
and this cost will take priority over the
auto-calculated cost.
For example, I configured the cost of R1’s
G0/0 interface as 10,000, and now you can
see the cost is 10,000 instead of 100.
One more option to change the OSPF cost of
an interface is to change the bandwidth of
the interface with the BANDWIDTH command.
To review, the formula to calculate OSPF cost
is reference bandwidth divideded by the interface
bandwidth.
I showed you how to change the reference bandwidth,
but you can also change the interface bandwidth.
Now, I have to make clear the difference between
interface ‘speed’ and ‘bandwidth’.
Although the bandwidth matches the interface
speed by default, changing the interface bandwidth
doesn’t actually change the speed at which
the interface operates.
The bandwidth is just a value that is used
to calculate OSPF cost, EIGRP metric, etc.
To change the speed at which the interface
operates, use the SPEED command.
This is how you actually change the speed
at which the interface physically sends data.
If you change the bandwidth of a gigabit Ethernet
interface to 100 megabits per second, it will
still operate at 1 gigabit per second.
However, for the purpose of OSPF’s cost
calculation, the bandwidth of 100 megabits
per second will be used.
Because the bandwidth value is used in other
calculations, not just the OSPF cost, it is
not recommended to change this value to alter
the interface’s OSPF cost.
It is recommended that you change the reference
bandwidth, and then use the ip ospf cost command
to change the cost of individual interfaces
if you want.
However, if you want to change the bandwidth
of the interface, here is the command.
BANDWIDTH, followed by the bandwidth in kilobits
per second.
Note that this is different than the reference
bandwidth, which is entered in megabits per
second.
The interface bandwidth command is entered
in kilobits per second.
Before you enter any command like this, I
highly recommend using the question mark to
check the units the command is entered in.
For example commands involving time, some
are entered in seconds, some are entered in
minutes.
For commands involving speed, some are entered
in kilobits, some are entered in megabits,
etc.
Always check to make sure you’re entering
the correct units.
Let’s summarize.
There are three ways to modify the OSPF cost.
First is to change the reference bandwidth.
The command is AUTO-COST REFERENCE-BANDWIDTH
and then the reference bandwidth in megabits
per second, entered in OSPF config mode.
Next is to manually configure the OSPF cost
of the interface with the command IP OSPF
COST, entered in interface config mode.
Finally you can also change the interface
bandwidth, although this isn’t recommended.
The command is BANDWIDTH, followed by the
bandwidth in kilobits per second, entered
in interface config mode.
I already showed you the SHOW IP OSPF INTERFACE
command, but here’s a quicker way to check
the OSPF cost of each interface.
SHOW IP OSPF INTERFACE BRIEF gives a convenient
overview of each OSPF-enabled interface on
the router.
Okay, let’s move on to the next topic.
This is another very important topic in OSPF,
OSPF neighbors.
Making sure that routers successfully become
OSPF neighbors is the main task in configuring
and troubleshooting OSPF.
Once routers become neighbors, they automatically
do the work of sharing network information,
calculating routes, etc.
So, you just have to make sure that OSPF is
activated on the correct interfaces, and that
the proper conditions are met to allow the
routers to become neighbors.
Of course, there are more advanced OSPF configurations
you can do, but for basic OSPF operation they
aren’t necessary.
However, if routers can’t become OSPF neighbors,
OSPF can’t operate at all, so this is very
important.
So, how do routers become OSPF neighbors?
When OSPF is activated on an interface, the
router starts sending OSPF hello messages
out of the interface at regular intervals
(determined by the hello timer).
These are used to introduce the router to
potential OSPF neighbors.
By exchanging hello messages they check that
they are compatible to become OSPF neighbors,
and then negotiate their neighbor relationship.
By the way, the default hello timer is 10
seconds on an Ethernet connection.
Remember this number!
OSPF hello messages are multicast to the IP
address 224.0.0.5, which is the multicast
address for all OSPF routers.
Do you remember RIP’s multicast address?
It’s 224.0.0.9.
How about EIGRP?
224.0.0.10.
Also, OSPF messages are encapsulated in an
IP header, and the ‘protocol’ field of
the IP header has a value of 89 to indicate
OSPF.
If you need a review of the IP header, go
back and watch Day 10 of the course again.
Okay, for OSPF routers to become neighbors
they have to go through various neighbor states.
I’ll give a basic overview of each of the
neighbor states.
I recommend taking notes for this section.
Although it will be just a basic overview,
I’m going to give you a lot of information
over the next few slides.
So, let’s assume OSPF is already activated
on R2’s G0/0 interface.
Then, OSPF is activated on R1’s G0/0 interface.
It sends an OSPF hello message to 224.0.0.5.
There are more fields in the hello message,
but two important ones are R1’s router ID
and the neighbor’s router ID.
However, R1 doesn’t know about R2 yet, so
the neighbor router ID field is 0.0.0.0.
R1 doesn’t know about any OSPF neighbors
yet, so the current neighbor state is Down.
This is the first OSPF neighbor state, ‘Down’.
When R2 receives the Hello packet, it will
add an entry for R1 to its OSPF neighbor table.
In R2’s neighbor table, the relationship
with R1 is now in the Init state.
Note that R1 still doesn’t know about R2,
so it will have no entries in its OSPF neighbor
table.
Basically, the Init state means that a Hello
packet was received, but R2’s own router
ID is not in the Hello packet.
R2’s router ID is 2.2.2.2, but the neighbor
router ID in R1’s Hello packet is 0.0.0.0.
So, that’s the Init state.
The next state is the 2-way state.
R2 will send a Hello packet containing the
RID of both routers.
R1 will insert R2 into its OSPF neighbor table
in the 2-way state.
Then, R1 will send another Hello message,
this time containing R2’s RID.
Now both routers are in the 2-way state.
The 2-way state means the router has received
a Hello packet with its own RID in it.
If both routers reach the 2-way state, it
means that all of the conditions have been
met for them to become OSPF neighbors.
They are now ready to share LSAs to build
a common LSDB.
On the other hand, if they fail to reach this
2-way state, you know that you have to troubleshoot
and find what’s stopping them from reaching
it.
In some network types, a DR (Designated Router)
and BDR (Backup Designated Router) will be
elected at this point.
I will talk about OSPF network types and DR/BDR
elections in Day 28, so don’t worry about
them for now.
I just wanted to introduce the terms, DR and
BDR.
At this point, the routers are already OSPF
neighbors.
Over the next few neighbor states they will
share LSAs and form a full OSPF adjacency.
Let’s go to the next neighbor state.
After the 2-way state, the two routers will
now prepare to exchange information about
their LSDB.
Before that, they have to choose which one
will start the exchange.
So, they will decide which one will be the
Master router and which will be the Slave
router.
Note that these are different than the DR
and BDR I mentioned in the last slide.
This Master/Slave relationship is only needed
for this initial exchange of LSDB information.
They decide which will be the Master and which
will be the slave in the Exstart state.
The router with the higher RID will become
the Master and initiate the exchange.
The router with the lower RID will become
the Slave.
So, in this case R2 will be the master and
R1 will be the slave.
To decide the Master and Slave, they exchange
DBD (Database Description) packets.
DBD packets are also important in the next
state, so I will talk more about them in the
next slide.
Basically, the Exstart state is just to prepare
for the next state.
R1 sends a DBD packet claiming to be the master.
However R2 corrects R1.
R2 has the higher router ID, and says that
it will be the master.
In the next state, the Exchange state, the
routers exchange DBDs which contain a list
of the LSAs in their LSDB.
These DBDs do not include detailed information
about the LSAs, just basic information telling
their neighbor what LSAs they have.
Basically the routers are telling each other,
‘I have these LSAs’, but they aren’t
actually sending the LSAs yet.
The routers compare the information in the
DBD they received to the information in their
own LSDB to determine which LSAs they must
receive from their neighbor.
After exchanging DBDs, they move to the next
state.
The next state is the Loading state.
In the Loading state, routers send Link State
Request (LSR) messages to request that their
neighbors send them any LSAs they don’t
have.
In the Exchange state they exchanged DBD packets,
so they know which LSAs their neighbors are
holding.
So, these LSRs are used to request any missing
LSAs to make sure each router has the same
LSAs.
I’ll just show one side of the exchange,
but R2 will also send R1 LSRs for any missing
LSAs.
Then the LSAs themselves are sent in Link
State Update, LSU, messages.
R2 sends R1 the requested LSAs in an LSU like
this.
R1 will also do the same for R2.
Finally, The routers send LSAck messages,
another kind of OSPF message, to acknowledge
that they received the LSAs.
Now the loading state is complete, and the
routers have the same LSDB.
We’ve reached the final OSPF state.
In the Full state, the routers have a full
OSPF adjacency and identical LSDBs.
But that doesn’t mean things are complete.
They continue to send and listen for Hello
packets, once every 10 seconds by default,
to maintain the neighbor adjacency.
To maintain the adjacency another timer called
the ‘Dead’ timer is used.
Every time a Hello packet is received, the
‘Dead’ timer, which is 40 seconds by default,
is reset.
However, if the Dead timer counts down to
0 and no Hello message is received, the neighbor
is removed.
If the neighbors remain up, the routers will
continue to share LSAs as the network changes
to make sure each router has a complete and
accurate map of the network.
This is the main advantage of dynamic routing
protocols, the routers automatically react
to changes in the network and add, remove,
or change routes as necessary.
Let’s summarize that process.
First of all, the connection between R1 and
R2 comes up, or OSPF is activated on the interfaces,
which starts the process.
The first state is the Down state, R1 and
R2 don’t know each other yet, but they will
send hello packets out of their interfaces.
Let’s assume that R1 sends the first Hello
packet.
The Init state is when R2 receives that first
Hello packet from R1, but R2’s own router
ID isn’t in the packet yet.
In the 2-way state, the routers exchange more
hello packets, but R1’s router ID is included
in R2’s Hellos, and R2’s router ID is
included in R1’s Hellos.
In some kinds of OSPF connections an election
for the designated router and backup designated
router takes place.
I will talk about this more in Day 28.
Next is the Exstart state.
The routers exchange DBD packets to determine
which will be the Master and which will be
the Slave.
The Master is the router that starts the DBD
exchange in the next state, the Exchange state.
They exchange DBD packets to tell each other
about the contents of their LSDB.
The next state is the Loading state.
They use LSRs, Link State Requests, to request
LSAs from each other.
The LSAs are sent in LSU, Link State Update,
packets.
Finally, LSAck packets are sent to acknowledge
that they received the LSAs they requested.
Finally, the routers reach the Full state,
and they have a full OSPF adjacency.
Do you remember this slide from Day 26?
The three main steps in the process of sharing
LSAs and determining the best routes to each
destination are 1, become neighbors, 2, exchange
LSAs, and 3, calculate the best routes.
Looking at this process again, these first
three states involve becoming neighbors, these
three involve exchanging LSAs to synchronize
the LSDB, and then the routers use the metric
I taught you to calculate the best route to
each destination.
That’s a basic overview of how OSPF works.
Also, here’s a quick summary chart of the
5 different OSPF message types.
Notice that they are numbered from 1 to 5,
1 being Hello, 2 being DBD, etc.
I already described the basic purpose of each
of these messages, so you can pause the video
here or take a screenshot if you want to use
this chart to review.
After that overview, let’s take another
look at a few OSPF show commands, you should
understand the output a little better now.
Here is SHOW IP OSPF NEIGHBOR, I entered it
on R1.
Note the full state with both neighbors R2
and R3.
Also, both R2 and R3 are DRs.
Again, I will explain DRs in the next video.
Also notice the dead time.
This counts down from 40, but resets as soon
as R1 receives a Hello packet from the neighbor.
So, assuming a Hello packet is received every
10 seconds, it should count down to 30, reset
to 40, count down to 30, reset to 40, etc.
Now let’s take another look at SHOW IP OSPF
INTERFACE, looking at R1’s G0/0 interface.
You can see the default Hello and Dead timers
of 10 and 40 here.
Hello due in 7 seconds means that R1 will
send a Hello message out of this interface
in 7 seconds, as it does once every 10 seconds.
Neighbor count is 1, adjacent neighbor count
is 1.
R1 has only 1 neighbor connected to its G0/0
interface, that’s R2.
In the next video I’ll tell you the difference
between a neighbor and an adjacent neighbor.
Finally, adjacent neighbor 2.2.2.2, designated
router.
As we saw above in SHOW IP OSPF NEIGHBOR,
R2 is a designated router.
Again, I’ll talk about that in Day 28, but
feel free to do a Google search to learn about
it if you’re curious.
Okay, that’s all for OSPF neighbors for
today, we will cover a few more details in
Day 28.
Let’s move on to look at a little bit more
OSPF configuration.
I already showed you a few new OSPF configurations
when we talked about OSPF metric, specifically
the AUTO-COST REFERENCE-BANDWIDTH command
and IP OSPF COST command.
So, let’s just look at a couple additional
configurations.
First off, do you remember the purpose of
the NETWORK command?
It’s the same for RIP, EIGRP, and OSPF.
It simply tells the router which interfaces
to activate the routing protocol on.
Well, you can actually enable OSPF directly
on an interface, without using the NETWORK
command.
For example, let’s assume that R1 has no
OSPF configurations on it yet.
Here’s how to enable OSPF on the interfaces.
You can activate OSPF directly on an interface
with this command: IP OSPF, followed by the
process ID, then AREA, and the area ID.
Note that this is done from interface configuration
mode.
Now OSPF is enabled on those interfaces and
I haven’t even entered OSPF configuration
mode.
Next, another method to configure passive
interfaces.
Can you see the difference?
You can configure all of the router’s interfaces
to be OSPF passive interfaces by default with
the command PASSIVE-INTERFACE DEFAULT.
Then, you can use the command NO PASSIVE-INTERFACE
to remove that only from specific interfaces.
This is simply another way to configure passive
interfaces.
Depending on the number of passive interfaces
you need to configure, this method might be
faster, or perhaps the normal method is faster.
Either way, the effect is the same.
If you configure OSPF directly on the interfaces,
you’ll see slightly different output from
SHOW IP PROTOCOLS.
The ‘routing for networks’ section is
empty, and instead the interfaces you activated
OSPF on are displayed here, ‘routing on
interfaces configured explicitly’.
The rest of the output is the same, however.
Before moving on to today’s quiz, let’s
review what we covered.
First up I showed you OSPF’s metric, called
cost.
By default it is automatically calculated
by dividing the reference bandwidth by the
actual bandwidth of the interface.
However, if the result is a value less than
1, it is converted to 1.
The default reference bandwidth is 100, so
anything equal to or faster than 100 megabits
per second has an equal cost of 1.
You can modify the reference bandwidth with
the AUTO-COST REFERENCE-BANDWIDTH command.
You can also manually configure the cost of
an interface with the IP OSPF COST command.
One more option to modify an interface’s
cost is to change the bandwidth with the BANDWIDTH
command, although this isn’t the recommended
method.
Finally, a route’s metric is the total cost
of the outgoing interfaces in the route.
Next we studied the process routers use to
become OSPF neighbors.
Here’s the summary diagram.
This is probably the most difficult section
of this lecture.
I recommend watching it a few times, and perhaps
doing a google search for ‘ospf neighbor
states’ to learn more about the process.
Finally I introduced a couple more OSPF configurations.
Instead of using the NETWORK command, you
can activate OSPF directly on an interface
with this command.
As an alternative method of configuring passive
interfaces, you can configure all interfaces
as passive with the PASSIVE-INTERFACE DEFAULT
command, and then only make specific interfaces
active after.
Make sure to watch until the end of today’s
quiz for a bonus question from Boson ExSim
for CCNA, a set of practice exams for the
CCNA and the best tool to get ready for the
real CCNA exam.
Okay, let’s go on to quiz question 1.
Put the OSPF neighbor states in the correct
order.
Here are the neighbor states, order them from
1 to 7.
Pause the video now to think about your answer.
Here’s the answer.
Down, Init, 2-way, Exstart, Exchange, Loading,
and Full.
A full explanation of each state would take
too long, so go back in the video if you don’t
remember the order and purpose of each state.
Let’s go to question 2.
Which statement about OSPF’s default cost
is correct? a) All interfaces have the same
cost.
b) Ethernet and FastEthernet interfaces have
the same cost.
c) FastEthernet, Gigabit Ethernet, and 10Gig
Ethernet interfaces have the same cost.
And d) Ethernet, FastEthernet, Gigabit Ethernet,
and 10Gig Ethernet interfaces have the same
cost.
Pause the video to think about the answer.
The answer is C, FastEthernet, Gigabit Ethernet,
and 10Gig Ethernet interfaces have the same
cost by default.
The cost is calculated by dividing the reference
bandwidth by the interface bandwidth.
The default reference bandwidth is 100 megabits
per second, so a FastEthernet interface has
a cost of 1.
However, anything faster than that will have
a cost of 1 as well, because all values less
than 1 are converted to 1.
Let’s go to question 3.
In which OSPF neighbor state are the Master
and Slave roles decided?
A, Exstart.
B, 2-way.
C, Exchange.
Or D, Loading.
Pause the video to think about the answer.
The answer is A, Exstart.
A Master and Slave need to be decided in the
Exstart state.
The Master is the router that will start the
Database Description, DBD, exchange in the
following state, the Exchange state, which
is option C. In option B, 2-way, a designated
router and backup designated router are selected
in some cases, but not a Master and Slave.
In D, the Loading state, LSRs, LSUs, and LSAcks
are exchanged, but a Master and Slave are
not decided.
Let’s go to question 4.
Which of these commands can be used to make
a FastEthernet interface have an OSPF cost
of 100?
A, AUTO-COST REFERENCE-BANDWIDTH 100.
B, 1000.
C, 10,000.
Or D, 100,000.
Pause the video to think about your answer.
The answer is C, AUTO-COST REFERENCE-BANDWIDTH
10,000.
Once again, the cost is calculated by dividing
the reference bandwidth by the interface bandwidth.
A FastEthernet interface has a bandwidth of
100 megabits per second.
10,000 divided by 100 equals 100, so you should
set the reference bandwidth to 10,000.
Let’s go to question 5.
What are the default OSPF Hello / Dead timers
on an Ethernet connection?
All times are in seconds.
A, Hello, 2 seconds, Dead 20 seconds.
B, Hello 10 seconds, Dead 40 seconds.
C, Hello 30 seconds, Dead 120 seconds.
Or D, Hello 60 seconds, Dead 180 seconds.
Pause the video to think about your answer.
The answer is B, the default Hello timer on
an Ethernet connection is 10 seconds and the
default Dead timer is 40 seconds.
Now, I haven’t mentioned this in this video,
but for some other kinds of connections the
default OSPF timers are actually 30 and 120,
as in option C. However, for Ethernet connections
the defaults are 10 and 40.
I’ll talk about some other kinds of connections
in Day 28.
Okay, that’s all for the quiz.
Let’s take a look at a bonus question from
Boson ExSim for CCNA.
Okay, here is today's Boson ExSim practice
question.
You administer the OSPF network shown in the
diagram above.
The AUTO-COST REFERENCE-BANDWIDTH 1000 command
has been issued on every router in the network.
What is the cost of the route from RouterA
to RouterC?
A, 11.
B, 3.
C, 12.
D, 2.
And E, 20.
Pause the video to think about your answer.
Okay, let's check.
So, you set the reference bandwidth to 1000
megabits per second on each router, so that
would mean that these gigabit ethernet connections,
1 gigabit per second, have a cost of 1, because
1000 divided by 1000 equals 1.
On the other hand, these 100 megabit per second
fastethernet interfaces have a cost of 10
because, of course, 1000 divided by 100 is
10.
So, ideally we will avoid any fastethernet
interfaces because they cost 10 times as much
as a gigabitethernet interface.
So, the shortest route without passing through
any fastethernet interfaces is from RouterA
to RouterB, that is a cost of 1.
RouterB to RouterE, plus 1 so 2.
RouterE to RouterC, plus 1 so 3.
So the total cost from RouterA to B to E to
C is 3.
Let's check the answer.
Okay, that is correct.
Here is Boson's explanation, quite detailed.
And they of course show you the diagram with
the same path that I chose.
RouterA to B to E to C. Okay, so you can pause
the video here if you want to read Boson's
explanations.
And they also include some references, or
a reference in this case, to Cisco documentation.
OSPF Design Guide: OSPF Cost.
This Cisco documentation is available free
online, and it's another great study resource.
So I highly recommend checking it out.
Okay, so if you want to get a copy of Boson
ExSim, please follow the link in the video
description.
These are the practice exams I used myself
for both my CCNA and CCNP exams, so I highly
recommend them.
Once again, follow the link in the video description.
There are supplementary materials for this
video.
There is a flashcard deck to use with the
software ‘Anki’.
There will also be a packet tracer practice
lab so you can get some hands-on practice.
That will be in the next video.
Sign up for my mailing list via the link in
the description, and I’ll send you all of
the flashcards and packet tracer lab files
for the course.
Before finishing today’s video I want to
thank my JCNP-level channel members.
Thank you to Marko, Florian, Daming, Venkatesh,
Kone, Joshua, Jhilmar, Samil, Ed, Value, Magrathea,
Justin, John, funnydart, Scott, Hassan, Gerrard,
Tibi, Joyce, Marek, Velvijaykum, C Mohd, Johan,
Mark, Miguel, Yousif, Sidi, Boson Software,
Charlesetta, Devin, Lito, Mike, Yonatan, and
Vance.
Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly,
but thank you so much for your support.
One of you is still displaying as Channel
failed to load, if this is you please let
me know and I’ll see if YouTube can fix
it.
This is the list of JCNP-level channel members
at the time of recording by the way, August
11th 2020.
If you signed up recently and your name isn’t
on here don’t worry, you’ll be in future
videos.
Thank you for watching.
Please subscribe to the channel, like the
video, leave a comment, and share the video
with anyone else studying for the CCNA.
If you want to leave a tip, check the links
in the description.
I'm also a Brave verified publisher and accept
BAT, or Basic Attention Token, tips via the
Brave browser.
That's all for now.